# AutoMusicComposerFromChords
Jonathn Alis Lima

Give the chords, the program create the melody.

Compile:
g++ main10.cpp MuMaterial.cpp MuUtil.cpp MuNote.cpp MuVoice.cpp MuParamBlock.cpp MuError.cpp -o compose
Run:
./compose
Csound may be required.

Usage:
Write the chords from the list of chords: C, C7, Cm, Dm, D7, Em, E7, F, Fm, G, Gm, Am, A7, Bb.
Type the number of repeating times
Type the number of beat per compass
Type the bpm (beats per minute)
At the end, it generates the result in the file teste1.wav

A sample file generated by this program is on the file teste1_backup.wav

How it works?
Is has a state machine, in which, for each current chord, and for each current note, there is a probability of next note. (I filled from my music understand at the moment I wrote the code. You can change the transitions probabilities by modifying the matrix 'chances' in the file main10.cpp, in which, first dimension correspond to the current chord, second dimension to the current note, and the third dimension is the next note, and the value is the probability in percentage (adds to 100)).
The time of the notes are randomly generated by specific distribution I tryed empirically (around 1/4 and 3/4 of the song time, there is a fast stage for some variation).
The octave is changed so that the note intervals are minimum.

Finally, the melody is exported to a melodia.sco, and played by orchestra orq.orc, and the synthesized sound is saved as the file teste1.wav.

TODO: segmentation fault occurs for large created songs. I have to solve this issue.

Uses the MuM library from Carlos Eduardo Mello, in the MuM folder
